Oracle Section:
 
1.How many types of joins we have in SQL and explain with examples? 
Definition:
JOINS are way to query the data that combined together from multiple tables simultaneously.

there are 5-types of joins:
Equi-Join or INNER-JOIN: Combines common records from two tables based on equality condition. 
result set includes common(matched) records from both tables. 

Natural-Join: It is enhanced version of Equi-Join, in which SELECT operation omits duplicate column.

OUTER-JOIN: It  combines matched rows from two tables and unmatched rows with NULL values.
However, can customized selection of un-matched rows e.g, selecting unmatched row from first table or second table by 
sub-types: LEFT OUTER JOIN and RIGHT OUTER JOIN.

1. LEFT Outer JOIN : Returns matched rows form two tables and unmached from LEFT table(i.e, first table) only.

2. RIGHT Outer JOIN : Returns matched rows from two tables and unmatched from RIGHT table only.

3. FULL OUTER JOIN : Returns matched and unmatched from both tables.

Self-Join:: A customized behavior of join where a table combined with itself; 
This is typically needed for querying self-referencing tables .


Cartesian Product: It cross combines all records of both tables without any condition.
 Technically, it returns result set of a query without WHERE-Clause.



2.what is the difference between a WITH clause and sub query?
The WITH query_name clause lets you assign a name to a subquery block. 
You can then reference the subquery block multiple places in the query by specifying query_name.
Oracle Database optimizes the query by treating the query name as either an inline view or as a temporary table.

The subquery no longer has to be repeated. The more complicated the repeated code is,
 the more beneficial it is from a maintenance point of view to use a CTE. 
And the more expensive the subquery is the more performance benefit you could see from using a CTE,
 though the optimiser is usually pretty good at figuring out what you're doing anyway.

3. Write SQL statement to print last month first date and last date by using sysdate?

to find the last_month first_date:

select last_day(add_months(sysdate,-2))+1 from dual;

to find last_month last_date:

select last_day(add_months(sysdate,-1)) from dual;

4. What is Index and Explain about the types of indexes in oracle?

To increase or improve the performance of data retrieve
Types of index:
>B* TREE INDEX
>BIT MAP INDEX
>COMPOSITE INDEX
>FUNCTION BASED INDEX
>UNIQUE INDEX
>IOT(index organization table)


B*TREE INDEX:

its used for high coordinately column(less duplicate)
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name(col_name);
Ex: create index idx1 on emp9 (first_name);

BIT MAP INDEX:

its used for LOW coordinately column(more duplicate)
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name(col_name);
Ex: Create index idx2 on emp9 (gender);

COMPOSITE INDEX:

Its used to create more than one column
Syntax:
Create index idx4 on emp9 (first_name,salary);

FUNCTION BASED INDEX:

its used for function based column
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name (function(col_name));
Ex: create index idx3 on emp9 (length(first_name);

UNIQUE INDEX:

Its created for unique values 
primary key is also consider as unique index
 it will ignore duplicate and null values.

Syntax:
Create unique index idx5 on emp9 ;

IOT(index organization table)
:
Its cluster index
 the values are inserted in IOT it will return in ascending always.
Syntax:
Create table t9
(a number
Primary key);


5. What is the output for below statements?
a.	translate('sciohealth','io','x')
          Answer: scxhealth

select translate('sciohealth','io','x') from dual;


b.	replace('sciohealth','io')
        Answer:schealth

select replace('sciohealth','io') from dual;


c.	substr('sciohealth',-2)
         Answer:th

select substr('sciohealth',-2) from dual;


d.	instr('sciohealthanalytics','a',1,2)
          Answer:11

select instr('sciohealthanalytics','a',1,2) from dual;


6. What is the output for below statements?

a.	round(85.89,1)
         Answer:85.9

select round(85.89,1) from dual;


b.	trunc(85.89,1)
         Answer:85.8

select trunc(85.89,1) from dual;


c.	round(85.89,-1)
        Answer:90

select round(85.89,-1) from dual;


d.	trunc(85.89,-1)
        Answer:80

select trunc(85.89,-1) from dual;


7. What is the output for below statements?

a.	round('14-FEB-2018','mm')
         Answer:Invalid number

select round('14-FEB-2018','mm') from dual;


b.	trunc(14-FEB-2018','mm')
         Answer:Invalid number

select trunc('14-FEB-2018','mm') from dual;


c.	round(sysdate,'yyyy')
        Answer:01-JAN-2019

select round(sysdate,'yyyy') from dual;



d.	trunc(sysdate,'yyyy')
         Answer:01-JAN-2019

select trunc(sysdate,'yyyy') from dual;

8. What is the output for below statements?

a.	round('16-FEB-2018','mm')

      Answer:Invalid number

select round('l6-FEB-2018','mm') from dual;


b.	to_char(20160214,'dd-mon-yyyy')
           Answer:Invalid number format

select to_char(20160214,'dd-mon-yyyy') from dual;


c.	to_date(20160214,'yyyymmdd')
         Answer:14-FEB-2016

select to_date(20160214,'yyyymmdd') from dual;

d.	to_date(20160214,'DD-MON-YYYY')
        Answer:Literal does not match string

select to_date(20160214,'DD-MM-YYYY') from dual;


9. Write SQL statement to print number of occurrences of 'a' in 'Scio health analytics'.

        Answer: 3

select length('sciohealthanalytics')-length(replace('sciohealthanalytics','a')) from dual;


10. Write SQL statement to print department details from DEPT table which his not contains 
my employees in EMP table?


select deptno,dname from dept1 where deptno not in(select deptno from emp1);

TABLE NAME: EMP

EMPNO    ENAME       SAL    DEPTNO

1001      Shyam     1500     10

1002      Sundar    1750     20

1003      Raju      2000     30

1004      Dinesh    2500     20

1005      Sundari   2100     30

1006      Anupama   3000     10

1007      Subbu     4500     10

TABLE NAME: DEPT

DEPTNO     DNAME

10       Technology

20         Sales

30       Marketing

40        Analytics


11. Write SQL statement to print following output by using above two tables? 

DEPTNO     DNAME       COUNT(EMPNO)

10       Technology       3

20         Sales          2

30       Marketing        1

40        Analytics       0



select d1.deptno,d1.dname,count(e1.empno) from emp1 e1,dept1 d1 where e1.deptno(+)=d1.deptno group by d1.deptno,d1.dname


12.Write SQL statement to print employee details where employee salary is greater than
average salary of his departments?


select * from emp1 where sal >(select avg(sal) from emp1);

13. Write SQL statement to print minimum paid employee from each department using EMP table?

select deptno,min(sal) from emp1 group by deptno;


14.What is explain plan and explain briefly about explain plan?

•	EXPLAIN PLAN parses a query and records the "plan" that Oracle
Devises to execute it. By examining this plan, you can find out if Oracle is picking the right indexes and joining
 your tables in the most efficient manner. 
•	There are a few different ways to utilize Explain Plan. We will focus on
using it through SQL*Plus since most Oracle programmers have access to SQL*Plus.

What we will see in Explain:
        JOINS
                      Nested loop
                      Hash
                      Sort Merge
        INDEX SCAN
                     Unique Scan
                     Range Scan
                     Full Scan
                     Fast Full Scan
                       Skip scan
         CPU  Time Cost/Cordinality
                       Cost = Outer Access + (Inner table access * Outer cardinality)         
STATISTICS:
Oracle generate explain plan based on below statistics
1.	Database
2.	Schema
3.	Table
4.	Column
5.	Index



15.What is the diffrence between SUBSTR and INSTR?

INSTR function finds the numeric starting position of a string within a string.

As eg.

Select INSTR('Mississippi','i',3,3) test1,

         INSTR('Mississippi','i',1,3) test2,

         INSTR('Mississippi','i',-2,3) test3

from dual;

Its output would be like this

Test1           Test2              Test3

___________________________________________

11                   8                     2

SUBSTR function returns the section of thte specified string, specified by numeric character positions.

As eg.

Select SUBSTR('The Three Musketeers',1,3) from dual;

will return 'The'.



16.HOW to handle null values?

A field with a NULL value is a field with no value.

If a field in a table is optional, it is possible to insert a new record or update a record without adding a value to this field.
 Then, the field will be saved with a NULL value.
We will have to handle use the IS NULL and IS NOT NULL operators instead.



17.what is RANK and DENSE_RANK? What is the Difference between those?

RANK gives you the ranking within your ordered partition. Ties are assigned the same rank,
 with the next ranking(s) skipped. So, if you have 3 items at rank 2, the next rank listed would be ranked 5.

DENSE_RANK again gives you the ranking within your ordered partition, but the ranks are consecutive.
 No ranks are skipped if there are ranks with multiple items.

18.What number comes next in this series: 
1, 11, 12, 1121, 122111, .....
 answer:112213
	
19.Which number replaces the question mark?

5  8  11
10 14 12
7  3   ?

20.A train traveling at 72 kmph crosses a platform in 30 seconds and a man standing on the platform in 18 seconds. 
What is the length of the platform in meters?

240 meters


1.what is view? Advantages and disadvantages?

View is the simply subset of table which are stored logically in a database  means a view is a virtual table in the database 
whose contents are defined by a query. 

To the database user, the view appears just like a real table, with a set of named columns and rows of data.
 SQL creates the illusion of the view by giving the view a name like a table name and storing the definition of 
the view in the database.

Views are used for security purpose in databases,views  restricts the user from viewing certain column and 
rows means by using view we can apply the restriction on accessing the particular rows and columns for specific user. 
Views display only those data which are mentioned in the query, so it shows only data which is returned by 
the query that is defined at the time of creation of the View. 

Advantages of views

Security

Each user can be given permission to access the database only through a small set of views that contain the specific data 
the user is authorized to see, thus restricting the user's access to stored data

Query Simplicity

A view can draw data from several different tables and present it as a single table, turning multi-table queries into
 single-table queries against the view.

Structural simplicity

Views can give a user a "personalized" view of the database structure, presenting the database as a set of virtual tables
 that make sense for that user.

Consistency

A view can present a consistent, unchanged image of the structure of the database, even if the underlying source tables
 are split, restructured, or renamed.

Data Integrity

If data is accessed and entered through a view, the DBMS can automatically check the data to ensure that it meets 
the specified integrity constraints.

Logical data independence.

 View can make the application and database tables to a certain extent independent. If there is no view, 
the application must be based on a table. With the view, the program can be established in view of above,
 to view the program with a database table to be separated.

Disadvantages of views

Performance

Views create the appearance of a table, but the DBMS must still translate queries against the view into queries against 
the underlying source tables. If the view is defined by a complex, multi-table query then simple queries on 
the views may take considerable time.

Update restrictions

When a user tries to update rows of a view, the DBMS must translate the request into an update on rows of 
the underlying source tables. This is possible for simple views, but more complex views are often restricted to read-only.

2.To join 5 tables.how many minimum no of joins are required?

4 joins.

|-|-|-|-|

table -> table -> table -> table -> table 

3.Convert into date format,
a) 20130525.............>'25-may-2013'

select to_date('20130525','yyyy-mm-dd') from dual;

b) system date..........> Date only

select to_char(sysdate,'dd') from dual;


4.What is ROUND(56.89) and TRUNC(56.89)?


select round(56.89) from dual;

ROUND(56.89)
57

select trunc(56.89) from dual;

TRUNC(56.89)
56

5.how many types of indexes are available in oracle?Give the explaniation on the each index.

To increase or improve the performance of data retrieve
Types of index:
>B* TREE INDEX
>BIT MAP INDEX
>COMPOSITE INDEX
>FUNCTION BASED INDEX
>UNIQUE INDEX
>IOT(index organization table)


B*TREE INDEX:

its used for high coordinately column(less duplicate)
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name(col_name);
Ex: create index idx1 on emp9 (first_name);

BIT MAP INDEX:

its used for LOW coordinately column(more duplicate)
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name(col_name);
Ex: Create index idx2 on emp9 (gender);

COMPOSITE INDEX:

Its used to create more than one column
Syntax:
Create index idx4 on emp9 (first_name,salary);

FUNCTION BASED INDEX:

its used for function based column
Syntax: 
Create index index_name on tab_name (function(col_name));
Ex: create index idx3 on emp9 (length(first_name);

UNIQUE INDEX:

Its created for unique values 
primary key is also consider as unique index
 it will ignore duplicate and null values.

Syntax:
Create unique index idx5 on emp9 ;

IOT(index organization table)
:
Its cluster index
 the values are inserted in IOT it will return in ascending always.
Syntax:
Create table t9
(a number
Primary key);

6.how to handle the null values ? what is the difference NOT IN and NOT EXISTS operator?
A field with a NULL value is a field with no value.

If a field in a table is optional, it is possible to insert a new record or update a record without adding a value to this field.
 Then, the field will be saved with a NULL value.
We will have to handle use the IS NULL and IS NOT NULL operators instead.

NOT IN is not equivalent to NOT EXISTS when it comes to null.
When the subquery returns even one null, NOT IN will not match any rows.
if any row of that subquery returns NULL, the entire NOT IN operator will evaluate to either FALSE or NULL and 
no records will be returned


7.what is the DECODE and CASE statements? what is difference between both?Give one example on each.

There is one big difference between DECODE and CASE and it has to do with how NULLs are compared. 
 DECODE will return "true" if you compare NULL to NULL.  CASE will not. For example:

DECODE(NULL, NULL, 1, 0)
will return '1'.

CASE NULL
    WHEN NULL THEN 1
    ELSE 0
END

will return '0'. 
You would have to write it as:

CASE
    WHEN NULL IS NULL THEN 1
    ELSE 0
END

CASE	                                     DECODE
1.We can use relational operators          We cannot use relational operators
   Ex: =,>,<

Note : Case is Faster	
2.can be assigned to a variable	            can't be assigned to a variable

3.case can be written independently or  
 in select statement	                    Only it can be used in select statement


8.Give one example on each of the below functions;

a) TRANSLATE

select translate('greens','en','ai') from dual;

TRANSLATE('GREENS','EN','AI')
graais

b) REPLACE

select replace('greens','en','ai') from dual;

REPLACE('GREENS','EN','AI')
greais

c) SUBSTR

select substr('greens',1,3) from dual;

SUBSTR('GREENS',1,3)
gre

d) INSTR

select instr('greens','e',1,1) from dual;

INSTR('GREENS','E',1,1)
3

e) TRUNC

select trunc(99.6) from dual;

TRUNC(99.6)
99

Employee:

EMPNO  ENAME   SALARY   DEPTNO
1001	A      1000      10
1002	B      2500      20
1003	C      6000      20
1004	D      5000      30
1005	E      1500      10


9.Write a query to pull 2nd highest salary employee details.

select max(sal) from emp2 where sal != (select max(sal) from emp2);


10.Write a query to pull department wise sum of salary.

select deptno,sum(sal) from emp2 group by deptno;


11.What is RANK and DENSE_RANK? What is the Difference between those?

RANK gives you the ranking within your ordered partition. Ties are assigned the same rank,
 with the next ranking(s) skipped. So, if you have 3 items at rank 2, the next rank listed would be ranked 5.

DENSE_RANK again gives you the ranking within your ordered partition, but the ranks are consecutive.
 No ranks are skipped if there are ranks with multiple items.

12.What is GRANT and ROLLBACK?

SQL GRANT statement to grant SQL SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, and other privileges on tables or views.

For example, suppose user JONES needs to use the Change mode of the Table Editor for a table called ORDER_BACKLOG.
 To grant JONES the UPDATE privilege on the ORDER_BACKLOG table, issue the following statement:

GRANT UPDATE ON ORDER_BACKLOG TO JONES WITH GRANT OPTION

SQL RollBack. ROLLBACK is the SQL command that is used for reverting changes performed by a transaction.
 When a ROLLBACK command is issued it reverts all the changes since last COMMIT or ROLLBACK.

13.When can we use WHERE clause and when can we use HAVING clause?

 WHERE clause is used for filtering rows and it applies on each and every row, while HAVING clause is used to filter 
groups in SQL. 3) One syntax level difference between WHERE and HAVING clause is that, former is used
 before GROUP BY clause, while later is used after GROUP BY clause.


14.Convert SYSDATE into US date format and Indian date format.

INDIAN DATE FORMAT
select to_char(sysdate,'dd-mm-yyyy') from dual;
29-01-2019

US DATE FORMAT

select to_char(sysdate,'mm-dd-yyyy') from dual;
01-29-2019

15.What is the purpose of the EXPLAIN PLAN, when and how it can be used?


sqlplus  set autotrace on;
Explain plan for select * from employees;
select dbms_xplan.display from dual;





